# Nikola Release Checklist (v11/2016-02-12)

## Requirements

In order to create a release, you need a bit of free time and a GPG setup. You could technically do without them (`git tag -am` + `twine upload` without `-s`), but it’s nicer if we have some confirmation it’s really you.

## Housekeeping

 * <input type="checkbox"> If you have a local clone of the releng repo: `git pull` first, refresh the page if necessary
 * <input type="checkbox"> Get into the Nikola repo, make sure you are on the `master` branch and run `git pull origin master`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `scripts/document_path_handlers.py > docs/path_handlers.txt`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `scripts/jinjify.py`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `scripts/import_po.py`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `scripts/update-bower.sh`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `scripts/generate_symlinked_list.sh`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `scripts/generate_conf.py > ../nikola-site/listings/conf.py` (if necessary, change the path to reflect where you store your clone of the Nikola website)
 * <input type="checkbox"> Check if there are any new languages that **have translations** (edit the files for translations marked as not found manually) and add them, using `scripts/langstatus.py`

## Preparation

 * <input type="checkbox"> Pick a reasonable version number. Increase the last number (patch) or, if the changes *really* are significant, increase the second number (minor).

## Writing announcements

All announcements must include the *Greeting*, *What is Nikola?*, *Downloads*, and *Changes* blocks, in that order. Use the announcements in the Release Engineering repo as a template.

You may also add a *Key Changes since last release* block after *What is Nikola?*.

 * <input type="checkbox"> Write an announcement for GitHub Releases. It should use Markdown syntax and no word wrap.
 * <input type="checkbox"> Write an announcement for e-mail. It should use reST-esque syntax, with word wrap at 70 columns.
 * <input type="checkbox"> Write an announcement for the Nikola blog. Use `nikola new_post -et "Nikola v$VERSION is out"'!' -i path/to/blog.rst --tags 'nikola, planet, python, programming, release'` to import the announcement template (which you should then edit). Make sure to set the author name to your real name.

## Versioning and tagging

Run all the commands in your terminal:

 * <input type="checkbox"> `VERSION=X.Y.Z` (without `v`!)
 * <input type="checkbox"> `scripts/set_version.py`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `git add .`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `git commit -asm "Version $VERSION"`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `git tag -sm "Version $VERSION" "v$VERSION"`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `git push --follow-tags origin master`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `rm -rf build Nikola.egg-info`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `./setup.py bdist_wheel`
 * <input type="checkbox"> `twine upload -s dist/Nikola-$VERSION-py2.py3-none-any.whl`

## GitHub Releases

 * <input type="checkbox"> Create a GitHub release for this version by running `scripts/github-release.py`
 * <input type="checkbox"> Download the source `.tar.gz` file generated by GitHub (open link from the release script and click the download button)
 * <input type="checkbox"> Sign the file with `gpg -a --detach-sign nikola-$VERSION.tar.gz`
 * <input type="checkbox"> Upload the tarball and the `.asc` file to PyPI

## GitHub Issues

 * <input type="checkbox"> Create milestone for next release
 * <input type="checkbox"> Move outstanding issues to milestone for next release
 * <input type="checkbox"> Close milestone for this release

## Local update

 * <input type="checkbox"> Use `pip install -e` to reinstall Nikola from Git in your virtualenv (if applicable)

## Website update

 * <input type="checkbox"> Copy all documentation, `AUTHORS.txt` and `CHANGES.txt` from your Nikola copy to `stories/`
 * <input type="checkbox"> Modify the version numbers in `stories/conf.txt`
 * <input type="checkbox"> Optionally regenerate the `cerulean` theme: `nikola bootswatch_theme -s cerulean -n cerulean`
 * <input type="checkbox"> Build and deploy the site
 * <input type="checkbox"> Commit and push your changes to GitHub

## E-mails

 * <input type="checkbox"> Send the e-mail announcement to <nikola-discuss@googlegroups.com> and <python-announce-list@python.org>. You should sign it with GPG if possible.
 * <input type="checkbox"> (OPTIONAL) Report a bug to Debian, notifying them of the update.  (<submit@bugs.debian.org> + Package/Version/Severity “header” lines at top of message)

## Finishing up

 * <input type="checkbox"> Give yourself a pat on the back!
 * <input type="checkbox"> If you have access to the AUR packages, update them (if not, wait for Chris to handle this)
